John Maynard Keynes And The Markets
========================================
URL:  https://www.theinvestorspodcast.com/episodes/keynes-and-the-markets-w-kyle-grieve/
Date: 26 February 2026

In today’s episode, Kyle Grieve discusses the investing evolution of John Maynard Keynes and the timeless lessons modern investors can draw from his successes and failures. He explores how Keynes transitioned from macro-driven speculation to concentrated, long-term ownership of high-quality businesses, emphasizing temperament, process, and intrinsic value over guessing. The episode highlights why adaptability, emotional discipline, and a focus on fundamentals remain the true drivers of long-term outperformance.

SUBSCRIBE

IN THIS EPISODE, YOU’LL LEARN:
Why John Maynard Keynes is such a fascinating case study in evolving as an investor
Why Keynes’s experiences of going broke multiple times helped shape him into a long-term thinker
A key resource that helped him think of assets from a bottom-up approach
How he thought about speculation and investing, and used that to beat the market
How he improved his temperament, overcame overconfidence, and adopted a long-term mindset
His thoughts on diversification and why he believed deep knowledge was crucial to reducing risk
Why he believed that markets were social systems, and the errors that exposed investors to
What he thought about short-term volatility, and how he dealt with it through his career
Why Keynes used adaptability as such a powerful tool
Six impactful takeaways from my research on Keynes
And so much more!

Disclosure: This episode and the resources on this page are for informational and educational purposes only and do not constitute financial, investment, tax, or legal advice. For full disclosures, see link.

TRANSCRIPT
Disclaimer: The transcript that follows has been generated using artificial intelligence. We strive to be as accurate as possible, but minor errors and slightly off timestamps may be present due to platform differences.
[00:00:00] Kyle Grieve: John Maynard Keynes’ compounded capital at roughly 16% per annum for over two decades, beating the broader UK index by nearly 6% annually during that stretch. But probably the most incredible part of this was that he achieved those returns while navigating some of the most tumultuous times in human history.
[00:00:16] Kyle Grieve: He did this through the end of World War I, the Great Depression and all of World War II. He had to not only figure out which businesses were good, but also which would survive potential damage to their operations, all while trying to withstand the volatility that the market would throw at him during peak periods of uncertainty.
[00:00:33] Kyle Grieve: In today’s life, most of the uncertainty that we face stems from factors such as interest rates and inflation. Keynes had to deal with the uncertainty of whether his country would still exist or whether a manufacturing plant would be bombed out and no longer able to produce any revenue. But most investors don’t really think of Keynes in this light.
[00:00:51] Kyle Grieve: They think of him as an economist who had a large impact on economics and then just stop there. But in reality, Keynes developed some of the most impactful investing concepts much earlier than most of the investing legends that we discussed on the show. But because many of his concepts are just, you know, buried in boring old economic textbooks, they aren’t widely known to the general investing community.
[00:01:13] Kyle Grieve: Another often cited problem with Keynes was that he went broke twice. While these two events were obviously very painful for him, I also think that they were basically his tuition to help him understand that he just couldn’t rely on his great intellect to deliver meaningful and sustainable returns. As a result of reflecting on this, he drastically evolved his thinking about time horizons and went from trying to generate returns, you know, as fast as possible, to understanding that the key to investing success was lengthening his holding periods and avoiding the overactivity that just plagues the average investor.
[00:01:45] Kyle Grieve: Some of the biggest gifts that he had to the investing world were around understanding that markets are largely social systems. If you make the mistake of thinking that the market is permanently rational, you’ll go crazy simply because it’s gonna make irrational decisions nearly all the time. Another great lesson that he imparted was to differentiate between speculation and investing.
[00:02:05] Kyle Grieve: When you understand how each of these is defined, it really helps to ensure that you’re investing and acting in ways that are congruent with success. Now, one of the biggest lessons that I learned from Keynes was regarding concentration. And not necessarily just to put all of your money into your best ideas, but also to understand that there’s certain ideas that simply don’t deserve to have large amounts of capital behind them.
[00:02:27] Kyle Grieve: And it’s not necessarily a mistake to have a few of these bets in your portfolio once you look at them through a probabilistic lens. Now let’s dive right into the fascinating evolution and lessons from John Maynard Keynes.
[00:02:41] Intro: Since 2014 and through more than 190 million downloads, we break down the principles of value investing and sit down with some of the world’s best asset managers. We uncover potential opportunities in the market and explore the intersection between money, happiness, and the art of living a good life. This show is not investment advice. It’s intended for informational and entertainment purposes only. All opinions expressed by hosts and guests are solely their own, and they may have investments in the securities discussed. Now for your host, Kyle Grieve.
[00:03:24] Kyle Grieve: Welcome to The Investor’s Podcast. I’m your host, Kyle Grieve, and today we’re gonna examine lessons from an economist that basically all investors can learn from. Sounds kind of strange, doesn’t it? Most of the time, most investors, including me, rightfully show just outright disdain for economists simply because they confidently attempt to kind of paint these accurate pictures of what’s happening in the economy, only to be correct at pretty much the same rate as a coin flip.
[00:03:50] Kyle Grieve: Today’s economist, John Maynard Keynes is a member of the eminent dead, who is definitely worth learning from. I won’t be going over his economic theories at all in this episode, as they aren’t nearly as interesting to me as what we can learn from his very, very successful investing career and money management adventures.


HELP US OUT!
Help us reach new listeners by leaving us a rating and review on Apple Podcasts! It takes less than 30 seconds, and really helps our show grow, which allows us to bring on even better guests for you all! Thank you – we really appreciate it!
BOOKS AND RESOURCES
Join the exclusive ⁠⁠⁠TIP Mastermind Community⁠⁠⁠ to engage in meaningful stock investing discussions with Stig, Clay, Kyle, and the other community members.
Learn how to join us in Omaha for the Berkshire meeting ⁠⁠here⁠⁠.
Read ⁠⁠Keynes and the Market⁠⁠.
Read ⁠⁠Concentrated Investing⁠⁠.
Related ⁠books⁠ mentioned in the podcast.
Ad-free episodes on our Premium Feed⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠.

Some of the links on this page are affiliate links or relate to partners who support our show. If you choose to sign up or make a purchase through them, we may receive compensation at no additional cost to you.
NEW TO THE SHOW?
Get smarter about valuing businesses in just a few minutes each week through our newsletter, ⁠⁠⁠The Intrinsic Value Newsletter⁠⁠⁠.
Check out our ⁠⁠⁠The Investor’s Podcast Starter Packs⁠⁠⁠.
Follow our official social media accounts: ⁠⁠⁠X (Twitter)⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠LinkedIn⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠Facebook⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠.
Browse through all our episodes (complete with transcripts) ⁠⁠⁠here⁠⁠⁠.
Try our tool for picking stock winners and managing our portfolios: ⁠⁠⁠TIP Finance Tool⁠⁠⁠.
Enjoy exclusive perks from our ⁠⁠⁠favorite Apps and Services⁠⁠⁠.
Learn how to better start, manage, and grow your business with the ⁠⁠⁠best business podcasts⁠⁠⁠.

SPONSORS
Support our free podcast by supporting our sponsors:
HardBlock⁠⁠
⁠⁠Human Rights Foundation⁠⁠
⁠⁠Simple Mining⁠⁠
⁠⁠Unchained⁠⁠
⁠⁠Masterworks⁠⁠
⁠⁠Netsuite⁠⁠
⁠⁠Vanta⁠⁠
⁠⁠Shopify⁠⁠
⁠⁠Fundrise

References to any third-party products, services, or advertisers do not constitute endorsements, and The Investor’s Podcast Network is not responsible for any claims made by them.
