Money Masters Of Our Time w/ Kyle Grieve
========================================
URL:  https://www.theinvestorspodcast.com/episodes/money-masters-of-our-time-w-kyle-grieve/
Date: 23 November 2025

On today’s episode, Kyle Grieve discusses significant takeaways from the book Money Masters Of Our Time. I’ll discuss how investors can alter strategies while staying true to their core principles, the importance of controlled greed in generating wealth, how to approach investing in brand new markets, events that investors should actively seek to find the best prices, what Zebras can teach us about contrarianism, why we should be reluctant to take profits, and a whole lot more!

SUBSCRIBE

IN THIS EPISODE, YOU’LL LEARN:
Warren Buffett’s emphasis on “controlled greed” and “fascination with your craft” and why it’s necessary to survive in the market for a lifetime
How to identify and take advantage of stocks nobody else wants
Why more research time should be spent finding the truth of things rather than confirming what you already believe to be true
A simple framework for identifying and holding businesses that compound capital
The four kinds of events when a quality business can offer attractive entry points to look for
Strategies to search for opportunities in newly opened markets
The importance of perspective when taking advice from people who are playing different games than you
The importance of being reluctant to take profits
How to utilize metaphors to aid in your investing decision-making
The strength of using tracking positions to understand potential outperformers better
And so much more!

TRANSCRIPT
Disclaimer: The transcript that follows has been generated using artificial intelligence. We strive to be as accurate as possible, but minor errors and slightly off timestamps may be present due to platform differences.
[00:00:00] Kyle Grieve: Investors think in dogmatic terms when it comes to optimizing an investing strategy. However, as John Train illustrates in Money Masters of Our Time, a variety of strategies have led to some of the greatest outperformers in history. As I explored the book, I noticed that while each investor had a unique approach, they all left very, very valuable clues to their success.
[00:00:21] Kyle Grieve: Many of these insights apply broadly to the art of investing. Whether you’re a long-term value investor, a quality focused investor, a seeker of deep value plays, an activist, a speculator, or even a trader. In today’s episode, we’ll dive into the key lessons that I took from each investor that was profiled.
[00:00:36] Kyle Grieve: In this great book, you’ll learn about Warren Buffett’s concept of controlled greed and why it’s so beneficial as long as you emphasize the controlled part of that equation. We’ll explore why T. Rowe Price shifted away from his signature growth strategy only to return to it after facing widespread imitation.
[00:00:52] Kyle Grieve: I’ll share Jim Rogers’s affinity for making these large basket bets on emerging markets and his thought process for determining which ones were worth investing in. We’ll also discuss why the size of a fund can hinder performance and why this is a crucial factor to consider when investing with top tier managers.
[00:01:07] Kyle Grieve: Now, one of my favorite takeaways is from the chapter that was on Peter Lynch. In this section, I’ll explain why Lynch made well over 15,000 trades throughout his career and the critical insights behind his approach. While I wouldn’t replicate his methods here, understanding his reasoning sheds light on how investors can think about position sizing when analyzing new investments.
[00:01:28] Kyle Grieve: Now, there’s much to cover in this episode, but no matter your investing style, I’m confident you’ll walk away with a fresh perspective on the fascinating world of investing. Now, let’s jump right into this week’s episode.
[00:01:42] Intro: Since 2014 and through more than 180 million downloads, we’ve studied the financial markets and read the books that influence self-made billionaires the most. We keep you informed and prepared for the unexpected. Now for your host, Kyle Grieve.
[00:02:07] Kyle Grieve: Welcome to The Investor’s Podcast. I’m your host, Kyle Grieve, and today we’re going to dig into some of the insights from some of the greatest money masters in history. We’re going to look at a number about performing investors outlined in the book Money Masters of Our Time by John Train. Now, instead of profiling each individual investor, I’m going to focus more on just timeless principles that I think can be adapted and applied to any intelligent investing framework.
[00:02:32] Kyle Grieve: Now, what I really enjoyed about this book was the vast array of strategies that were used in the investors who were outlined. Train says that investors that he picked come from just several different schools of investing, whether that be growth, value, technology, emerging markets, micro caps, turnarounds, top down, bottoms up, and so on.


HELP US OUT!
Help us reach new listeners by leaving us a rating and review on Apple Podcasts! It takes less than 30 seconds, and really helps our show grow, which allows us to bring on even better guests for you all! Thank you – we really appreciate it!
BOOKS AND RESOURCES
Join the exclusive ⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠TIP Mastermind Community⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ to engage in meaningful stock investing discussions with Stig, Clay, Kyle, and the other community members.
Buy Money Masters of Our Time ⁠⁠here⁠⁠.
Related ⁠⁠⁠books⁠⁠⁠ mentioned in the podcast.
Ad-free episodes on our ⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ ⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Premium Feed⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠.

NEW TO THE SHOW?
Get smarter about valuing businesses in just a few minutes each week through our newsletter, ⁠⁠⁠The Intrinsic Value Newsletter⁠⁠⁠.
Check out our ⁠⁠⁠The Investor’s Podcast Starter Packs⁠⁠⁠.
Follow our official social media accounts: ⁠⁠⁠X (Twitter)⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠LinkedIn⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠Instagram⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠Facebook⁠⁠⁠ | ⁠⁠⁠TikTok⁠⁠⁠.
Browse through all our episodes (complete with transcripts) ⁠⁠⁠here⁠⁠⁠.
Try our tool for picking stock winners and managing our portfolios: ⁠⁠⁠TIP Finance Tool⁠⁠⁠.
Enjoy exclusive perks from our ⁠⁠⁠favorite Apps and Services⁠⁠⁠.
Learn how to better start, manage, and grow your business with the ⁠⁠⁠best business podcasts⁠⁠⁠.

SPONSORS
Support our free podcast by supporting our sponsors:
Simple Mining⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Human Rights Foundation⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Unchained⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠HardBlock⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Linkedin Talent Solutions⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠reMarkable⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Netsuite⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Shopify⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Onramp⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Vanta⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Public.com⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Abundant Mines⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠
⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠Horizon⁠⁠⁠

Disclosure: The Investor’s Podcast Network is an Amazon Associate. We may earn commission from qualifying purchases made through our affiliate links.
